So, how are you all? This is the next part of the course, the next video. And as I told you, we will move forward. Our course will be more advanced here. You will learn more things here. Today, basically, what are we going to do? That we are going to work on hosting here. We are going to work on the setup of our website. There are many more things that we need to know today. Which you will find out in today's video. We have made some changes in the way we are going according to the module. Today, we were going to talk about the GoDaddy domain. But to be honest, to be straight forward. The GoDaddy coupon is updated from time to time. In which GoDaddy was accepting payments. What has happened is that since this new year has come, The coupon has expired there. Which is not working for a limited time. Very soon we will take our coupon and tell you the whole process. How are you going to work with the domain? For now, don't worry here at all. I try my best here. Within 2 to 3 days, this method should be told. Whenever it comes in working condition. But before that, I would like to share 2 to 3 things with you. Definitely, it is very important for you to know. Guys, what do you have to do now? To start this thing, you definitely need hosting and domain. You definitely need hosting and domain. So what do you have to do for this? You have to purchase XYZ domain here. Let you know, when we sell actions, Only two domains are in demand here. .com and .xyz And to be honest, if we sell .com in 3800, Then our XYZ domain is sold out in 3300-3400. And XYZ is easily available here in Rs. 97. Go to GoDaddy and I will tell you how you have to go there. If you want to save a little more than that, You will also get it in Rs. 83. There is no .club domain, but all those low-rated domains come. If I say that if you want to work on actions, If you want to work on selling actions, Then two domains are very important for you. .com and .xyz .com coupon will come in working condition. I will try to give you an update very soon. You may get an update for the working coupon in the next video. So here we go to GoDaddy first. You have to go to GoDaddy. After going to GoDaddy, you have to simply open their website. As soon as you open the website, You are also giving .in domain here. It is Rs. 140, which is close to Rs. 170 by tax. You can also take it easily. But if your budget is under Rs. 100, If it is under Rs. 100, then you can see here. Xyz, .in and .com You can purchase any of these three. Don't do .com right now. Because its price is going to be Rs. 340. GoDaddy still gets that domain for Rs. 900. But you can take it in Rs. 340. For that, you will have to use the coupon code. If you can take it in Rs. 340 to start work, Then tell me that I will tell you the coupon code. I will tell you the method. But I want to tell you the full method. Rs. 99, Rs. 87 when it comes in working condition. Let me tell you first. I have already given you proofs. That we have actually booked the domain. In Rs. 70, Rs. 75, Rs. 75. But what is it now? Now it is not in working condition. If you want a live tutorial, then I will give that too. Moving forward in this video. After using the coupon, the price is decreasing. But the payment is not happening here. And this coupon is not working in the market right now. Because it is a new year. So GoDaddy keeps updating its coupon from time to time. If you want to take XYZ domain. Then you can see that you are getting Rs. 99. And if you want to take .in, then you will get .in. Only here in Rs. 149. Right. If you add its icon fees here. Then it will not go much. It will go up to Rs. 160. You will get .in domain up to Rs. 160. It is a top level domain. There is nothing to worry about. .in will sell more. .xyz will also sell a lot. .com If we go to the next video, then it will be a gold wedding. Right. So you can purchase any of these domains. When you want to pay for it in India. You will have unlimited methods available. Whether it is UPI, Google Pay. Different different debit card, credit card. You can do it with any method. You will not need VCC. Fine. Assume you have purchased the domain here. But guys, if I disappointed you with this thing. Then I would like to tell you one thing here. Right. I had talked about hosting. Fine. If your budget is tight. Then I will not say that you sell Rs. 3000-4000 from your pocket. All the people in the market. Right. All the people who do AdSense selling. They use three types of hosting. Whose business is going on. The budget is good. They use SiteGround or A2 hosting. The people who come to a little intermediate level. They use inter-server. Fine. Many people use inter-server hosting. And those who stay below that. They can use free hosting. Free hosting is like Google hosting here. But I will not recommend you. Because you are watching your brother's course. And I want you to invest as little as possible. Fine. So today I will tell you. That you are hosting the inter-server for only Rs. 3. Whose price is now. If I tell you. So it is $ 4 a month. Approximately around Rs. 200. But you only have it above Rs. 200. Its price is around Rs. 260. But you will be able to buy it for only Rs. 3 or Rs. 4. How will you do that. We are going to know everything in this video. Because if you have hosting. Because I told you in the beginning. You can do it on blogger too. But my recommendation is. Because we are making the course on WordPress. We are going to use a lot of plugins in the course. Which is available only on WordPress. There are a lot of features in WordPress. Which help us to get AdSense approval. That is the reason friends. I recommend you here. I recommend you to do a hosting purchase. And Rs. 3 for a month. I don't think. It is a little more. Okay guys. Now what are you doing for this. You have to come to the inter-server website. You have to come to the inter-server website. And click on buy now. Right. I am going to tell you live proof. I am going to tell you by payment here. Okay. I am going to tell you by payment. And one of you will get this hosting free of cost. Okay. Because I will pay. What will I do with this hosting. I will give this hosting to one of you. Okay. So look here. It is saying here. Register a new domain. I already have a domain. Okay. So if you have. First of all. You have to go to GoDaddy. You have to purchase a domain. Right. Anyone will work easily. You will purchase your domain easily. Okay. After that it will come here. I already have domain. If you have a domain. If you have a domain. Then I am here. I already have a domain. I will click on it. Okay. I already have a domain. I will put my domain here. Right. So look here. We have an available domain. Okay. So look here. We have an available domain. For which we have a job. To get approval. So we put it here. FilmyRides.com. Okay. FilmyRides.com. So I click on continue here. Okay. After clicking on continue. It will ask you an email address. In the email. You can use your gmail id. I am basically showing you a tutorial. So I am using a temp mail here. Okay. So see carefully. How will you take a premium hosting for three rupees. Everything is included in it. Okay. So I will click on it. I will click on it. I will click on it. I will click on it. I will click on it. I will click on it. I will click on it. I will click on it. What will be the time of announcement. Tie is left. What is your time? ties are left. Okay. Around what time you will say the time? So if you say in the 2 hours. 2 hours right. So I will say in the 2 hours. 2 hours, So I will see the date. See what your time starts. Okay. So here. You have to change the I thought that if people are waiting for it, then definitely I should tell you about hosting So here I see the valid date, I put my CVV here My CVV here is 125 Right And here CVV is 851 I put my CVV here I put 851 here, I click on place order So see, you have successfully Right, you have successfully Hosting for 1 month in just Rs. 0.01 Yes, from inter server Very good hosting When you see their reviews, you will know They also have very advanced hosting Okay, I click on continue So you can see guys Our hosting panel has been created We have got hosting in just Rs. 1 What you have to do here is You have to put your name server in your GoDaddy account Right, when you put your name server Then you will be able to log in on your cPanel When I will log in on cPanel See, it is not on approval Because we have not updated the name server yet You will have to update the name server first This is the name server After that you will click on cPanel CPanel will open easily Wordpress will open easily Everything will open easily Your work will be easy Okay You don't have to worry about anything And it is very easy and reliable It is hosting for 1 month In 1 month, you will get your AdSense approval easily Just try to work accordingly Right, here you can add unlimited domains You get unlimited storage You get unlimited bandwidth here There is no need to worry about anything Just in Rs. 1 Right, this thing is working till now I have told you In future, if this thing does not work Then I know In future, you are going to become a millionaire So you will have enough money To purchase a good hosting Right, what do I do for you? For you, I will close these tabs Because I don't need them now I am here Before we go inside our hosting We are working Always remember one thing And put it in your mind If you want to grow well in this industry If you want to generate sales So you have to make two mindsets If you are getting AdSense approval From your own website Then choose your favorite domain But if you are getting AdSense approval For market Right, for market, for selling Then always remember Three types of domains will always sell more First domain will be news Right Second domain will be jobs Right And third domain will be tech Right And affiliate marketing people Will also come to take AdSense from you Right Because we do both jobs together So that will be deals related domain Right For this, you can use Let me tell you Yes Domain name Domain name generators There are a lot You can see When you open in these They will give you an idea What should be your domain name If you write tech That tech A lot of type Means everyone does like this Guys, it's okay Let me open and show you Like you are seeing here If you write tech here Right If you write tech Then it will give you a lot of domains Right If I write tech here Then whatever is available here Domain Right So it will give examples of a lot of domains And a lot of such good This is from Shopify Sorry This is not from Shopify This is a normal domain name generator But there are a lot of such domains here Which generate a lot of good domains Which are available Which you can purchase Right You have purchased the domain page For yourself For the public Whom to sell Okay Keep this thing in mind Jobs News And third Related to deals It is going to sell more here So friends See here We have purchased hosting I have given you the domain ideas I have given you the advice Always remember Make sure to use domain name generators And the best thing is Go to Google here Top Domain Name Wait Wait Wait Name Generator If you search Then you will get a lot of such websites Which Whose work is this Which means The domain Top domain See here 30 name generators See these top generators Will tell you You use them Here you Little by little Your niche There You enter And related to that niche It will bring you a lot of domains From there You will get a domain idea You purchase it Right And .com I am telling you Don't worry Very soon I will tell you Now our Second work Like we Purchased the domain After purchasing the domain You will know Whenever you Purchase any domain So like If you are using another hosting Leaving GoDaddy You have to update their name server According to your hosting Right Always hosting Provides you with your name server Whether it is a2 hosting Whether it is inter server Every hosting will provide you with a name server Which asks you to put it there Right Where do you have to put It is there Whenever you log in Go to your domain Go to my product There is an option of dns By going to the option of dns I will tell you one thing now I will tell you where it is Look, I have signed in This is my domain Right There is an option of dns here Okay Understand a little I already know You people You know such a minor thing You don't need to tell But still Okay So look here There is no option here yet But there are a lot of records here There is an option This is the option of name server You have to change here You have to put your name server Right As it is my hosting So my name server Provided here Okay Which I have to put there That's it Now let's go to our cpanel Because my domain is already connected Okay My domain On which work has come Already connected So now we will work on it I will tell you how to work What to do Right So what to do Look friends When you come to your panel You come to your panel Right You come to your panel The first thing you have to do is Go to your ssl Why ssl Because friends This is the policy of google adsense He has written clearly in adsense That he He cares a lot about his audience And he wants his information to be secure So that And to secure information So that no man in the middle Don't attack And there are a lot of things So for them he says You have to put ssl on your website And we pay a lot for ssl We pay a lot for ssl Whereas in hosting This thing is always integrated Whether it is inter-server Whether it is a2 hosting In this You get integrated Okay But this is shared ssl Right Here ssl Which is You are watching You have to go to ssl tls Right You don't have to go anywhere You don't have to go anywhere You don't have to go anywhere You don't have to mess You get everything in hosting Install You have to go on ssl sites Okay When you go to the ssl site Here you will get the option of select domain Okay I tell you below Here you will get the option of select domain Keep one thing in mind Whenever you connect your name server Like you connected your name server So your site doesn't start working then It takes at least 5 to 6 hours To fetch your server ip Right Whatever is in the backend To start that process It takes 6 hours Right To sit properly on your server Okay So those things happen After that what you have to do Here you have to select your domain Right When you select your domain Like I select here Any domain here I select here See Always keep in mind that You are the sub Where this option is ready Sub domain Plus sub domain Plus cpanel Plus mail Means you want to secure everything Okay Oh my god So when you select your domain here Right So here you see Autofill by domain option comes See It autofills automatically The keys of public and private Whatever is there I have a little minor knowledge about this Okay Go there Go down Where you should do install certificate I have already installed So I don't need to do all this And one more thing I want to tell you Which is a little new In wordpress Which bloggers use So see friends When you go to inter server When you use that hosting Go to inter server So here you will have an option Okay friends Add-on domain Okay Go to add-on domain Where you are going to work on multiple websites So you will add them here Okay And you will add the same website Add the domain here Okay After adding it It will show you everywhere Okay Make sure you go to add-on first Then you go to ssl etc Okay After updating the name server Go to add-on domain Add it to your server After that you go to ssl And install your certificate The next step is Go to software list Select wordpress option Okay Select wordpress option Go to install option Friends make sure I am telling you You should give 7-8 hours minimum So that your ssl Start automatically Okay Automatically Setup The server automatically Sets it up And when you go to install The choose protocol here It is secured here If you go then It will give you an option That This protocol has not Secured ssl etc Okay So you don't have any problem You can install it on http You can ssl it later But it is mandatory It is necessary Okay Now we have already Installed it So we don't need it Okay Simply click on install Now we go to our admin panel For which we need Okay Here is the domain of filmiride So we go to its admin panel Right So friends I have already gone to the admin panel Now We have worked on it a little bit, which I will tell you. We have already worked on it a little bit. So I will tell you, but you don't worry. I will tell you from the beginning, what we have done in it. What not to do. You will see that the theme is very minimalistic. At one time, it will also come to your mind that this is a useless theme. What are you using? How is it approved? But it is true. If you use a casual theme and two or three themes like this, then your chances of access approval increase by 20%. Right. We have done two or three things on this. So the best thing I do here, now I see that I do not have much loss, because we have already put posts here. So here we have already put 5-6 posts, and we have done a little bit of work. Don't worry, we can't delete it, but we can't ignore it either. I will definitely tell you. Right. The first thing, the most important thing, you have to go to the pages. Right. You have to go to the pages of your WordPress. Like I go to the pages. After going to the pages, see friends, we have generated a lot of pages here. You also have to generate these pages. The page with privacy policy, you get it automatically in WordPress. You just have to publish it. Okay. There, it automatically detects everything on your website. Right. You just have to publish it. But after that, what do you have to do? You have to go to the disclaimer generator. Okay. You have to go to the disclaimer generator. Here, the first website opens, the green one. Okay. What do you have to do here? There is no need to register. First of all, you have to put your company's name. Like I am making for FilmyRights. I wrote FilmyRights here. After that, it will ask for the name of the website. So, if I copy the name of the website from here, it will paste it here. After that, it will ask for the URL of the website. So, I put the URL here. You can also put it as HTTP. Okay. I have done it here. Okay. I will click on Generate My Disclaimer. After clicking on Generate My Disclaimer, it will ask you to put any Gmail ID. You can put any random one. We use it for email marketing. There is no need for it. You can also put a temp mail. So, there is no problem. You can put any wrong Gmail ID. You will get the disclaimer here. There is no need for your Gmail. Right. So, see, within 2 minutes, not 2 minutes, within 3 seconds, it has made your disclaimer. You can easily copy it from here. Okay. After copying it, go to your WordPress, go to the dashboard, create a page called disclaimer. Put it here. Okay. After that, friends, contact us. Okay. You don't have to do anything for contact us. For contact us, you can make a simple page. Like we have made this page. And using plugins like Elementor, you can make a contact us page. There are a lot of tutorials on YouTube. How do you make a contact us page? Basically, we have not done much work here. We have used some plugins. So, it automatically makes our contact us page. Okay. If you want to make it, you don't have to do anything. You have to go here, click on plugins, click on add new. Friends, people use two types of plugins. Contact form 7 and Ninja form. I use Ninja form more. Okay. I click on Ninja here. It will come here now. Ninja form, I like it a little more. Okay. Ninja form, you have to install it here. Okay. After installing it, activate it. After activating it, it automatically makes your contact us page. You get a short code there. Okay. You get a short code. Short code, you go to pages. Okay. For example, you have activated it. You have a contact form. You don't have any problem with it. You can also write this on contact us. You can also write in simple text form. But you don't have to leave it empty. You can also write in simple text form. Kindly contact us on this email address if you have any type of queries. Okay. You will do so much that only the public wants to contact. Okay. Public wants to give you a message. Brother, we have put contact us page on our website. But it should not be empty. Make sure. Right. You activate it. After activating it, the option comes here. When you get the option, you will get a short code. Okay. Now what to do with that short code? You have to go to all pages. When you get that short code. Right. After getting the short code, your contact us page, you have to click on the edit option there. See, basically we have not made a contact us page on it. But when we send it for action approval, then we will definitely use that short code here. Right. So see, we have written a symbol here. Contact us on. We have made a simple one. There is no need to kill mosquitoes in it. Otherwise, you can also do that when you come here, then you have to go to the text form here. Okay. By going to the text form, you can come down here and paste that short code. But in the text form. If you do it in the visual form, it will still work. There is no problem. If you do it in the text form, it will still work. There is no problem. You have to update here. Right. The update option has also become your contact us page. Friends, these are the most important things. Which you absolutely hundred and ten percent want to do. Right. So, the theme we are going to use, the name of that theme is casual. Okay. And casual is such a theme which is used by very good bloggers. But this theme is very old. I will tell you one thing here. I enter a simple keyword here. Recharge tricks. Okay. So here, guys, a very well-known blog. You know, recharge tricks. Guys, they have left blogging. They don't do it now. But they are also using the same theme here. As you can see, the same theme, this is a casual theme. I will tell you below. And just a few days ago, we got approval on our website. On that too, we are using the same theme. We have also started work on it. You can see here. Okay. So, you can see this. Very easily, you can show your multiple ads everywhere. See, how many ads are going on here. Okay. So, you also have to use this theme. For this, go to trainers, go to themes, click on add new option. Okay. After clicking on add new option, here you have to type simple. Casual. Right. When you search casual, then this theme comes here. You have to activate it. Okay. Our theme is already activated. Okay. So, we won't do much on it. So, wait a minute. We go to our themes here and check. See, our theme is already activated. We will customize it. To customize, there is a theme customizer option here. See below. On the theme customizer option, first of all, you get the option of layout, which is the most important thing. Friends, AdSense has a policy that in AdSense, at least, sorry, they want at least that much space on your website, where they can put one or two small ads there. Okay. There should be a place to put ads on your website. So, so, now, first of all, you get the option of layout, which is very important. Basically, layout will decide a lot of things for AdSense approval. In AdSense policy, it is written very clearly that there should be that much space on your website, there should be that much space so that at least, they can put their ads there. Sometimes, we use such themes which are full and there is no space to put ads there. So, here you have to go to layout and make sure you select such layout where there is at least one sidebar. For example, we have chosen one sidebar for filmy ride. The sidebar we have chosen for that website was that where there are two sidebars. Like, you can put ads on both the sidebars. But, my request to you is that for normal websites, you should always choose the right sidebar which looks beautiful and at least, AdSense gets to know that there is enough space to put ads. Now, we have to give a signal to AdSense. To give a signal, what we do is, we go to simple menus. After going to menus, sorry, we will not go to menus but we will go to widgets. After going to widgets, we will click on primary sidebar. Here, there is an option for add a widget. After going to add a widget option, you have to select custom html widget and you have to go to simple search bar. You have to leave it as it is. With this, AdSense will get a signal that there is a sidebar left to put ads where we can put ads. With this, you will get a good signal to Google AdSense. You will say that the website is already ready. How will you tell us things? Don't worry. The next step is site identity. This is a thing which normal people ignore to get regular on site. If you are serious on site, don't leave your site title and description at all. Even if you write anything randomly, this is my request that you don't leave it at all. Colors, header image, these things don't matter much. What matters is minus widgets, site identity and layout. You have to take care of these things. Make sure that you show your post on your latest post only in a way that AdSense doesn't understand when you posted your last post. This is a very complicated thing. If you don't show your latest post properly, then AdSense doesn't understand it. AdSense doesn't like those things and doesn't like those things. If you don't show your latest post properly, then AdSense doesn't understand it. If you don't show your latest post properly, then AdSense doesn't understand it. If you So you have to keep it as footer menu After putting footer menu, you have to add these 4 pages Privacy Policy, About Us, Contact Us, Disclaimer You have to add these 4 pages from here You have to click on footer menu And same thing friends, keep in mind When you are editing your header menu What you have to do in header menu is to put your categories Try to show your pages there as well And give the location of main menu Automatically it will show on top header Now one thing you have to keep in mind To get AdSense approval Suppose there is an APK website They put APK content and send it for AdSense And they say, I have put my post and content I will get approval But let me tell you friends, Google hates all these things If you want to trap Google in MoMaya You have to work on 3 niches Health Related, Jobs Work Related And third one is Tech Related And it should not be normal tech It should be foreign type Not Indian type tech where you are talking about smart phone Technology related, trading related You can make those things here Now let me tell you about movies And I think we will get AdSense approval And our article folk If they want to make articles about movies It will not be fun So we can work on 3 niches Health, Fitness, Jobs, Work Education Tech, Trading These are the 3 niches where you have to work Where you can get AdSense approval Most of the niches are Education, Health and Trading Here you have more chance to get AdSense approval You have selected the content After that people do one more mistake What we did We made Bollywood, Hollywood movies And after that We gave categories And the content we are putting in this is health related So in policy violation You will get Navigation Voluntary Navigation Problem If you don't want that error Make sure your categories Are correct Then after that You have to go to Plugins Go to Plugins Install 2-3 things Let me tell you So So So in Plugins You have to install 120% There are many Plugins Which we haven't installed yet Let me tell you So you don't have any problem Let me tell you If you want to install anything The most important Plugin Very few people know about it That is Sitepack Site by Google Sitepack by Google This is a Plugin Very few people know about it Very few people use it Now the next step is Plugins Now the next step is Plugins Customization is basic Now in Plugins You have to install 2-3 Plugins Which will help you in Access Approval The most important Plugin Which you may not know Or you may not have heard of it Or your friends Very few people know about this Plugin But this Plugin It will give a very good signal to AdSense To get AdSense Approval We have to send a signal For your AdSense For your AdSense Program We are eligible We have followed your policies We have followed your policies You have to install a Plugin called Sitekit I have installed Sitekit There are many Plugins You have to install a Plugin called Google You have to install a Plugin called Google Sometimes this Plugin does not come Sometimes this Plugin does not come So this is the Plugin Let me see Recording is very annoying Recording is very annoying Recording is very annoying Just a minute Sitekit Sitekit is a very important Plugin Sitekit is a very important Plugin You have to install Sitekit on your Website You have to install Sitekit on your Website Sitekit Plugin is aMusic Plugin Download Sitekit Download Sitekit Install is done Click on Simple Activate Whenever you are working for Website Approval Whenever you are working for Website Approval Always use Kangeto Window Always use Kangeto Window Always use Kangeto Window Always use Kangeto Window Help us improve the sidekit plugin by allowing tracking of anonymous users data Help us improve the sidekit plugin by allowing tracking of anonymous users data Help us improve the sidekit plugin by allowing tracking of anonymous users data Help us improve the sidekit plugin by allowing tracking of anonymous users data Help us improve the sidekit plugin by allowing tracking of anonymous users data verified owner of filmirad let me tell you guys for verification of search console we had to take a lot of trouble but this sitekit plugin has made our work so much easier don't ask guys now we will allow access google account data after allowing it will tell us to set up search console means there are such important steps which this one plugin will do all your work right it will make your search console account in 2 minutes which is very very important now we will click on go to dashboard why are we doing all these things to give a positive signal to google i am saying again to give a positive signal to google we are doing all these things ok first thing is done now second thing google adsense you have to do later first you have to connect analytic this whole thing is your sitekit you don't have to go anywhere this whole thing is your sitekit now you have to choose skin laptop like i have chosen skin laptop you have to choose that after that it will ask permission you have to allow allow it will make your analytics account so fast that all your problems will be solved and keep in mind search console, google analytics these are such accounts which we normal people ignore whenever we try to send adsense approval whereas this thing is mandatory this thing is very important which we definitely don't do now now see here what it is saying you need re-authenticate your google account if you are facing any issue to make your analytic account then you have to click here sometimes small issues are there but don't worry, this thing will be solved easily you simply click here after clicking simply allow it make sure again i am telling you to use incognito window if you use incognito window it will take 2 minutes to take impressions and clicks of your website in 2 minutes it will take your website's sitemap it will keep it close to you whereas this thing is not possible this fast once again click on connect service i will tell you why you are facing this issue it will take 2 minutes i will tell you the solution but this thing is mandatory sitekit is mandatory here we will click on create an account click on create an account click on create an account click on create an account after that it will redirect us to analytics as you can see right always check here that only one gmail id is working skin laptop which you have to take setup for free you can give your account name i will give here filmy rights i will go down click on next we will click on web after that we will write filmy rights after that we will put our url i will go to my website this is my website's url i will copy it i will go to analytics and here i will simply remove it here it is after that i will select my industry category if your website is working on https i will tell you i have not installed it on ssl so this is a small mistake but you have to be sure that you have to make it work on https take ssl it takes 7 hours again i am telling you you can select any category but if you do jobs or education then it is better or if you do health end then it is better here you will get health end option so here you have to click on create one minute guys here you have to make sure you are from india we are not misguiding you you are from india then click on create accept the policies and click on accept right here you will get a popup it will give you a code wait for a while you have to copy this code after copying go to dashboard make a copy of dashboard after going here go to plugins click on add new plugin watch carefully click on add new plugin after adding new plugin type here insert header and footer ok insert header and footer you have to install this plugin insert header and footer you can see many people have used this plugin because analytics says you have to implement this plugin in your header tag if you don't know coding you want simple drag and drop then use this plugin insert header and footer this plugin will help you in actions note the plugins first plugin was definitely sidekit second one is insert header and footer let's activate it ok now go to tools sorry go to settings you will get insert header and footer option after going to settings here is script in header we will install script in header ok after installing save it now it will search your analytics again here is your gmail id we have created account let's go to home we have created analytics account tracking is done we have given it now let's go to sidekit sidekit has fetched your website you can see you have to do filmyride all website data click on configure analytics click on configure analytics ok it will take some loading right you can see analytics and search console is connected these actions you have to do when you send your application to google adsense now you don't have adsense you haven't completed your post you have just started your website so don't touch this and don't touch pay speed option ok after that you can go to appearance go to plugins you have to install plugin which is wp rocket wp rocket is paid plugin but your course folder there all paid plugins free of cost you have to download it wp rocket upload plugin option activate it after activating basically cache files in wordpress it will reduce your website speed it will fix it now if we check our website speed check our website speed go to gtmetrix website gtmetrix from where we are going to check our website speed ok make sure your website speed should be less than 3 seconds here i have gone to gtmetrix sorry i will paste my website url ok to paste url i will copy my website url go to gtmetrix and click on test your site it will test your site and it will show your website speed what is your website speed ok bye bye bye bye So guys, how much is the loading speed of your website? 2 seconds. Why is this possible? It's because of the theme that you used. Now, if we use a plugin after that, now we use a plugin here, now we have put 3-4 posts in it. When we put more posts, the speed of your website remains below 3 seconds without using a plugin. But if you use any other theme, it goes to 4 seconds, 5 seconds, which is not a good signal for Google. Because Google wants if a user, if they have put an ad on their website, then some user comes to your website, then your website should open instantly, at a low network speed and there should be no bounce back, so that their ads get a good view time, get a good impression. So if the speed of your website is high, then you will still come under the policy violation and your approval possibility will be reduced. So let's install a plugin for this. I will install my plugin here. So let's install our plugin first. You will get WP Rocket on it, so you can go there and see. So here I have found my plugin. I have uploaded my plugin here. I will upload it here. Plugin file, I am telling you again that you will get there, which will be a GPL-based plugin. It will be a paid plugin and it will be GPL-based, it will be a premium plugin, it will be a pro version. You will get all the features there. There is no need to worry about anything. We use it on all our websites. So use it with open heart. The price of WP Rocket is very high. You are getting free of cost. You take advantage of it. See, plugin successfully installed. See, plugin has been successfully installed. I activate it. Right. Now we have a lot of versions of WP Rocket. We have not yet checked to tell you in the video course that we have installed the genuine one, that is, which one has been installed, which version has been installed. Everything is the same. But I don't know if it is the latest or not. But don't worry, we will give you the version of WP Rocket. It will be the latest and it will be the pro version. It will be in the GPL license. Right. And in addition to the casual theme, we can also use the Newsmag theme. I will definitely give you a video of it in a day or two. I will tell you when you need it. I will tell you when you need it. Now let me see where my WP Rocket plugin has gone. WP Rocket has been installed here. Now I refresh my page a little. I was recommending A2 Hosting to you earlier because all these things, all these features are automatically available here. All these features are already available here in A2 Optimize. Right. So see, you get the option of WP Rocket by going to this setting. Let me check that it is absolutely genuine. And wait a minute. Let me check the recording again. Hello, is it working? Yes, it is working. Okay. See, WP Rocket is now activated and already working for you. Okay. Your website will be faster now. As you can see, it has an expiry date of January 23, 2020. But don't worry at all. It will not expire. This is a GPL-based version. See, it is 23 today. But let me tell you, it will not expire. If you open it tomorrow, it will tell you about tomorrow. If you open it the day after tomorrow, it will tell you about the day after tomorrow. Okay. So don't worry. After that, you have to click on Remove All Cache Files. Okay. As you can see, Remove All Cache Files. It works automatically. It automatically cleans the cache. Right. So, see, it automatically removed all cache files. Here, I have two plugins that are here to remove cache. So, it is saying that, I mean, there is a cache plugin here and this is also there so it will be a little problem. You don't need to worry about it. See, it will remove all the cache files that are there. Okay. Let me check the recording again. Okay. So, see, it is 23 today. And it will tell you about tomorrow. But don't worry at all. If you open it the day after tomorrow, it will tell you about tomorrow. If you open it the day after tomorrow, it will tell you about tomorrow. Okay. So, see, it is cleaned. It has removed all cache files. Okay. So, see, it has removed all cache files. So, see, the speed of your website has increased. It has come to 1.8 seconds. Let me tell you one thing that here I am using images. Okay. See, the images are also completely optimized. I will tell you about this later. But, how are you going to do this because you may be using images. You may have seen an error here. The images are small and big. But this is the benefit of this theme. And the images generated by ArticleFolk are completely optimized. They are completely compressed images. Due to which, the loading speed of your website is completely reduced. Now, in the next video of this course, we are going to work more on this theme. There is nothing yet. We will do more work. There are a lot of things. It will be shocking to see your face. Brother, everything is in front of our eyes. But we don't do those things. But you have to do all that. You will find out later. In today's video, we have a complete theme. See, we have an analytic setup. How to take hosting from the theme? How to make a sidebar layout from the plugin? You have to know about all this. The duration of the next video will be longer than this. Because you can't wait that much. And I also want your work to start as soon as possible. You have to go as soon as possible. But I also have some limitations. There are some network issues here. There is not much internet here. I will upload the video now. It will be uploaded after 2-3 hours. There is a time congestion. You have to manage a little. You have to support me a little. Only then I will tell you genuine things. I will tell you openly. I had time. I wanted to cover this video in 30 minutes. By telling all this. I have been making videos on YouTube for 4 years. All these things are very small for me. But I want everything to be told to you in detail. To be told in detail. So that once you take this course. You go ahead and tell 4 people. Wow, what a course it was. It was a very smart investment. It was fun. Hope you are having fun in this course. As far as the domain is concerned. Don't worry. It will come out of your mouth. We will book the domain in 99. We will show you by booking. Don't worry. Everything else I have told you today. You do this. At least take .xyz.in domain. Set up your website. This confusion you have to remove in your mind. That .xyz does not get approval from AdSense. Otherwise, when we show you our AdSense list of .xyz domain. You will be shocked. You must have read 1 or 2 AdSense of .xyz. I will check it once. If that is also there. I will put the link of that too in your Google. Brother, Google gives approval to .xyz domain. Gives very easily. Gives to .in too. Gives to .org too. Okay. At one time .tk AdSense too. Gives approval to .tk extension too. Tell more. Okay. So don't worry about approval. You will definitely get it. Just follow the steps in detail. Don't do this. The video you so mean by the way. Do it. Do it. Do it. So if you miss one thing. You did not get ad sanse approval. You tell me tomorrow. And that thing. I will definitely not like that thing. So please take your time. Watch this video in the right way. Watch this course. And slowly. I am going to guide you in everything. The fruit of patience is sweet my friend. Rest. Keep yourself careful. You are all going to be a millionaire. So thank you so much friends. For taking out your time to watch this course. Hope so you are enjoying this course. Learning something. I will meet you in my next video. Till then. Be happy. Be safe.